{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red174\green212\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c73333\c86667\c100000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1\
SELECT name, country, numGuns\
FROM Ships \
WHERE yearLaunched < 1930 AND gunSize = 16\
\
2\
SELECT name \
FROM Ships\
WHERE gunSize = (SELECT MAX(gunSize) FROM Ships)\
\
3\
SELECT name, gunSize\
FROM Ships as ShipsD\
WHERE gunSize = (\
    SELECT max(gunSize)\
    FROM (\
        SELECT name, gunSize\
        FROM Ships as ShipsB\
        WHERE gunSize < (\
            SELECT max(gunSize)\
            FROM Ships as ShipsA\
        )\
    ) as ShipsC\
)\
\
4\
SELECT country, AVG(numGuns)\
FROM Ships\
GROUP BY(country)\
\
5\
SELECT distinct s1.country, s2.country\
FROM Battles b1\
INNER JOIN Battles b2 ON b1.battleName = b2.battleName\
INNER JOIN Ships s1 ON b1.ship = s1.name\
INNER JOIN Ships s2 ON b2.ship = s2.name\
WHERE s1.country < s2.country\
\
6\
SELECT s1.country, sum(case result when 'sunk' then 1 else 0 end)\
FROM Battles b1\
INNER JOIN Ships s1 ON b1.ship = s1.name\
WHERE b1.battleName = "Surigao Strait"\
GROUP BY s1.country\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \cb3 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Which battleships launched before 1930 had 16-inch guns? List their names, their country, and the number of guns they carried.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Which battleship(s) had the guns with the largest gun size?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Which battleships had the guns with the second largest gun size. More precisely, find the ships whose gun size was exceeded by only one gun size, no matter how many other ships had that larger gun size. List the names of the ships and their gun size.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 List, for each country, the average number of guns carried by their battleships.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 List all the pairs of countries that fought each other in battles. List each pair only once, and list them with the country that comes first in alphabetical order first.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	6.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 For the battle of Surigao Strait, for each country engaged in that battle (had one or more battleships participating), give the number of its battleships that were sunk. Note: this question is very tricky. In particular, you need to deal with the (historical) case that a country engaged in the battle but did not have any ships sunk.\cb1 \
}